Hello, and welcome to the first video in this Python Course.
Today we will download Python and an IDE.
First some backstory on Python:
Python was invented in the late 80's (true date is unknown)
and was first implemented in 1989. This makes Python
a farily new programing language. But that does not mean 
that Python has modern features compared to languages such as C++
or (just C++). It does not have namespaces, it does not have pointers
or specific-type variables. But that doesn't take away from the useage
of python. 

Python as a libary for everything, with easy instlation. They have 
a feature called "pip" that allows you to install packed by typing:
"pip install {package-name}" and an example package name is "pygame"
so you would type in a terminal: "pip install pygame". But first we 
need to install python.

 First you need to go to python.org. This is the website that houses the python 
 documentation and downloads. The download we need is the most recent, which is 
 3.9.5 (it might change in a week lol). Run the python installer when it is downloaded
 click "Add Python 3.9 to PATH", then click "Install Now", and then you may need
 to restart your computer after downloading. 
 
 Next we need an IDE or an IDLE. You could use the python IDLE, but that's not good for beginners.
 I am going to be using vim. Vim is a very nice text editor, that you can run
 right in your command prompt. You can download Vim from https://www.vim.org/download.php.
 Vim is easy to install, you can just follow the install instructions. 
 
 Now we can get into coding. First I will create a folder called "Python Coding"
 and i will open it up in terminal. Click on the path to the folder, and 
 type cmd. Then we can create a python file. To do this I will type
 "echo main.py" Python files need to end with the .py extension. 

Then we need to edit the file. We can type in the terminal "vim main.py". Then we 
can start coding. Python's most basic function is "print()". With the "print()" function
you can print string literials. So you can print things with the "print()" function.
An example: "print("Hello, world!")". This will print Hello, World to the console. 
You can put any words in the quotation marks. And you can put multiple line.
If you put multiple print statements it print it on the next line.
"print("Hello, ")
print("World")"
Even if you put the print statemenets on the same line.
although the print automatical makes a new line at the end of the string
you can manually do it by puting a "\n" character in your string.
example:
"print("This\nwould\nbe\na\nnew\nfor\nevery\n\word\n")"
And that about wraps up this first tutorial video. Please leave sugestions in 
the comments sections, if you feel the need to. Tutorial two will be out shortly.
The transscript and notes to this video are in the decription, as well with 
the scource code.
{End Card}